>> Evan You: So
there's a lot of misunderstandings or
confusions about the term reactivity
actually means in a programming context.
To some people it might just mean rx.
Reactive programming is like streams and
stuff, but
in our context this really just means
that when you change the state and
how the state reflects in
the update of the entire system.
In our particular context, how changing
state reflects into changes in the dom.
How does Vue track changes?
So let's first think about a variable,
JavaScript variable, that's just a = 3.
And then we have another variable
b which is 10 times of a.
So this is a requirement, so
imagine you're the developer and
your manager tells you hey
we need to build a program.
The requirement is the variable b should
always be 10 times the value of a.
Okay so how would you implement that?
So this is a very naive
imperative solution right?
The problem is later on when you change a,
b doesn't update because it's procedural.
It doesn't keep the relationship in sync.
So how can we keep them in sync, right?
So the idea is,
instead of having to manually
update b every time you change a we want
that relationship to be declarative.
So we realize what your manager
actually wants you to build
is a spreadsheet, right?
They want you to build Excel.
We have two cells.
The B cell should always
be ten times of A.
And in Excel we have this thing called
functions that allows you to declare
the relationship between two cells.
So cell B should always be 10
times the value of cell A.
And how do we express that
in programming terms?
So what if we can have the a magic
function called onAChanged?
That just takes an internal function and
will re-execute this
function whenever A changes.
Then our problem is solved.
The problem is,
how do implement that function?
But before we dive into that,
let's translate the problem into something
that's closer to web development.
Let's say we have this actually span cell
and we want to make sure the a cell.
So we have the b1 cell,
we also have the a1 cell.
We want to make sure the b1 cell is always
kept in sync per the requirements
of the spreadsheet.
So this is imperative way of doing it,
right?
We can just use the DOM API,
select it, set the text content.
And if we wrap this thing
inside our magic onaChanged or
onStateChanged function Suddenly
it becomes declarative, right?
We've declared that
the relationship between
our state.a and
the DOM staging of the cell b1.
And if we abstract further away,
abstract away this imperative DOM into
a templating language We have essentially
created a view library, all right?
So this internal representation,
view = render(state) is
the very high level abstraction of how
all the view rendering systems work.
If we look at that the bigger question.
So we'll not really bother with
the details in here because it involves
detailed DOM, DOM implementations,
virtual DOM implementations and all that.
We're not going to look into that.
What we're more interested about is how
do we implement this outer function and
this is how it might be implemented,
all right.
So it simply saves the update
function somewhere and
then, instead of allowing users to
arbitrarily manipulate the state,
we require them to always call
a function to manipulate the state.
And that function is called a set state.
Set state simply takes the new state,
and replaces the old state, and
then calls update function again.
Right and if you've used React
you will find this extremely
familiar because React forces you to
trigger on state changes of your setState.
And this is essentially
what React is all about.
Not all about but this is in
a nutshell how React works, right?
So we've noticed something
different in the view context or
in the angular context that we can,
in fact,
directly manipulate the state
without having to call set state.
So how does that work?
Well, in angulars,
things are a bit different because angular
uses dirty checking, and it's sort of
intercepts your events,
like clicks to perform a digest cycle.
Then it sort of checks all the things,
whether it has changed.
In views contacts we do it a bit
more granularly in the sense that we
actually convert your state
objects to become reactive.
By using the ES5
object.defineProperty API,
we convert all these properties
into getters and setters.
So in the case of state.a, we actually
convert a into a getter and a setter.
And in those scenarios,
we'll be able to do interesting things.
So if we renamed onStateChanged
function to something like auto run.
This is essentially a basic form
of dependency tracking that's
commonly shared in Knockout.js,
Meteor Tracker, and Vue.js and MobX.
MobX is a state management pattern for
React.